README.md, before:

# gdlogging Godot addon

![Doc Gen Badge](https://github.com/raldone01/godot_addon_gdlogging/actions/workflows/generate_docs.yml/badge.svg)

[Documentation](https://raldone01.github.io/godot_addon_gdlogging/)

This is a composable logging addon for version 4 of the [Godot game engine](https://godotengine.org/).

## Usage

```gdscript
var console_sink := Log.ConsoleSink.new()
Log.add_sink(console_sink)

var dir_sink := Log.DirSink.new("mylog", "res://logs", 4042)
var buffered_sink := Log.BufferedSink.new(dir_sink, 500)
# Don't log TRACE messages to the log file
var file_filtered_sink := Log.FilteringSink.new(buffered_sink, Log.DEBUG)
Log.add_sink(file_filtered_sink)

Log.debug("Hello World")
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:03] [         Global] [DBG] Hello World
var logger := Log.Logger.new("MyClass")
logger.debug("Hello World")
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:03] [        MyClass] [DBG] Hello World
Log.info(Log.format_error(ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND))
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:03] [         Global] [INF] File: Not found error.
var timer := Log.LogTimer.new("MyTimer", 0, logger)
OS.delay_msec(1111)
timer.stop()
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:04] [        MyClass] [INF] MyTimer took 1.111963 seconds.
const threshold_msec: int = 1000
timer.set_threshold_msec(threshold_msec)
timer.start()
OS.delay_msec(800)
timer.stop()
# Prints nothing, because the timer was stopped before the threshold was reached.
timer.start()
OS.delay_msec(1111)
timer.stop()
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:06] [        MyClass] [INF] MyTimer exceeded threshold of 1000 msec: took 1.111750 seconds.
```

## Sinks

* `FilteringSink`: Filters messages by level and forwards them to another sink.
* `BroadcastSink`: Broadcasts messages to multiple sinks.
* `BufferedSink`: Buffers messages and forwards them to another sink.
* `ConsoleSink`: Outputs messages to the console.
* `DirSink`: Outputs messages to log files and rotates them. Uses a thread for file io.
* `Logger`: Can receive messages from other Loggers and Sinks. Users will call the log functions which format the message.
* `MemoryWindowSink`: Keeps `n` log messages in memory. Can be used to display the last `n` messages in a GUI.
* `FormattingSink`: Formats messages and forwards them to another sink.

## Log Levels

* `Log.TRACE`: Prints the call site in debug builds. The stack depth can be configured per call.
* `Log.DEBUG`: Debug messages
* `Log.INFO`: Informational messages
* `Log.WARN`: Warnings
* `Log.ERROR`: Errors

## Custom Formatters

```gdscript
class MyLogRecordFormatter extends Log.LogRecordFormatter:
  func format(log_record: Dictionary) -> String:
    var time_unix: float = log_record["time_unix"]
    var level: Log.LogLevel = log_record["level"]
		var unformatted_message: String = log_record["unformatted_message"]

    var time_str: String = Time.get_date_string_from_unix_time(time_unix)
    var level_str := Log.get_level_name(level)
    var formatted_message := "[%s] [%s] %s" % [
      time_str,
      level_str,
      unformatted_message
    ]
    return formatted_message
# Logger use the global formatter by default but this can be overridden in the constructor.
Log.set_log_record_formatter(MyLogRecordFormatter.new())
```

## Installation

```bash
cd <godot_project_dir>
cd addons
git submodule add git@github.com:raldone01/godot_addon_gdlogging.git gdlogging
cd gdlogging
git checkout v1.0.0
```

`Project -> Project Settings -> Plugins -> gdlogging -> Activate`

## Licensing

Marked parts are licensed under the `LICENSE-godot-logger.md` (MIT) license.
The rest is licensed under `LICENSE.md` (MIT).

Commit message:

Ref count loggers to prevent leaks. Add restart notice to readme. Remove preload from main.

README.md, after:

# gdlogging Godot addon

![Doc Gen Badge](https://github.com/raldone01/godot_addon_gdlogging/actions/workflows/generate_docs.yml/badge.svg)

[Documentation](https://raldone01.github.io/godot_addon_gdlogging/)

This is a composable logging addon for version 4 of the [Godot game engine](https://godotengine.org/).

## Usage

```gdscript
var console_sink := Log.ConsoleSink.new()
Log.add_sink(console_sink)

var dir_sink := Log.DirSink.new("mylog", "res://logs", 4042)
var buffered_sink := Log.BufferedSink.new(dir_sink, 500)
# Don't log TRACE messages to the log file
var file_filtered_sink := Log.FilteringSink.new(buffered_sink, Log.DEBUG)
Log.add_sink(file_filtered_sink)

Log.debug("Hello World")
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:03] [         Global] [DBG] Hello World
var logger := Log.Logger.new("MyClass")
logger.debug("Hello World")
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:03] [        MyClass] [DBG] Hello World
Log.info(Log.format_error(ERR_FILE_NOT_FOUND))
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:03] [         Global] [INF] File: Not found error.
var timer := Log.LogTimer.new("MyTimer", 0, logger)
OS.delay_msec(1111)
timer.stop()
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:04] [        MyClass] [INF] MyTimer took 1.111963 seconds.
const threshold_msec: int = 1000
timer.set_threshold_msec(threshold_msec)
timer.start()
OS.delay_msec(800)
timer.stop()
# Prints nothing, because the timer was stopped before the threshold was reached.
timer.start()
OS.delay_msec(1111)
timer.stop()
# [24/Jan/14 13:28:06] [        MyClass] [INF] MyTimer exceeded threshold of 1000 msec: took 1.111750 seconds.
```

## Sinks

* `FilteringSink`: Filters messages by level and forwards them to another sink.
* `BroadcastSink`: Broadcasts messages to multiple sinks.
* `BufferedSink`: Buffers messages and forwards them to another sink.
* `ConsoleSink`: Outputs messages to the console.
* `DirSink`: Outputs messages to log files and rotates them. Uses a thread for file io.
* `Logger`: Can receive messages from other Loggers and Sinks. Users will call the log functions which format the message.
* `MemoryWindowSink`: Keeps `n` log messages in memory. Can be used to display the last `n` messages in a GUI.
* `FormattingSink`: Formats messages and forwards them to another sink.

## Log Levels

* `Log.TRACE`: Prints the call site in debug builds. The stack depth can be configured per call.
* `Log.DEBUG`: Debug messages
* `Log.INFO`: Informational messages
* `Log.WARN`: Warnings
* `Log.ERROR`: Errors

## Custom Formatters

```gdscript
class MyLogRecordFormatter extends Log.LogRecordFormatter:
  func format(log_record: Dictionary) -> String:
    var time_unix: float = log_record["time_unix"]
    var level: Log.LogLevel = log_record["level"]
		var unformatted_message: String = log_record["unformatted_message"]

    var time_str: String = Time.get_date_string_from_unix_time(time_unix)
    var level_str := Log.get_level_name(level)
    var formatted_message := "[%s] [%s] %s" % [
      time_str,
      level_str,
      unformatted_message
    ]
    return formatted_message
# Logger use the global formatter by default but this can be overridden in the constructor.
Log.set_log_record_formatter(MyLogRecordFormatter.new())
```

## Installation

```bash
cd <godot_project_dir>
cd addons
git submodule add git@github.com:raldone01/godot_addon_gdlogging.git gdlogging
cd gdlogging
git checkout v1.0.0
```

`Project -> Project Settings -> Plugins -> gdlogging -> Activate`

Autoloads are a bit janky so you may need to restart the editor for errors to go away.

## Licensing

Marked parts are licensed under the `LICENSE-godot-logger.md` (MIT) license.
The rest is licensed under `LICENSE.md` (MIT).
